Feat: Adds kongctl to developer (#4047)
Kong/developer.konghq.com: app/_how-tos/kongctl-get-started.md

    - title: "{{site.konnect_product_name}}"
      content: |
        This tutorial requires a {{site.konnect_short_name}} account. If you don't have an account, 
        you can get started quickly with our [onboarding wizard](https://konghq.com/products/kong-konnect/register?utm_medium=referral&utm_source=docs).
      icon_url: /assets/icons/gateway.svg
---

## Authenticate to {{site.konnect_short_name}}

Before you can manage resources, authenticate to {{site.konnect_short_name}} using the browser-based device flow:

```bash
kongctl login
```

This command will provide you a URL to open in your browser and activate kongctl as authorized to your organization. 

After completing the authorization, you can verify access by invoking the `get me` command which retrieves information 
for the account authorized.

```bash
kongctl get me
```

The above example shows the common structure of a kongctl command. The CLI uses a natural language structure to the commands
following a pattern loosely defined as:

```bash
kongctl <verb> <product/resource> <flags> <arguments>
```

## View existing resources

The `get` verb is commonly used to view resources defined in your organization. 

> For example, list all developer portals in your organization:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, list all Dev Portals in your organization:
```

```bash
kongctl get portals
```

> If you are using a new account you should see an empty response, otherwise the portals you have access to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using a new account, you should see an empty response, otherwise the Dev Portals you have access to
```

will be displayed. 

kongctl commands support different output formats, including `json`, `yaml`, or `text`.  The same command

> ran as the following will output the data in `json` format:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kongctl commands support different output formats, including `json`, `yaml`, or `text`.  The same `get` command will output the data in `json` format if you run the folllowing:
```

```bash
kongctl get portals --output json
```

In a new account will produce an empty JSON array (`[]`).

## Create resources declaratively

The kongctl declarative management system operates by taking resource configurations as input, planning
changes to authorized {{site.konnect_short_name}} organizations, and then applying those changes automatically

> in the proper order to satisfy resource parent / child and other resource relationships.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in the proper order to satisfy resource parent/child and other resource relationships.
```

form of the plan that would be enacted if you applied the configuration.

### Apply the configuration

The `apply` command executes planned changes (create and update operations _only_) against the authorized organization. 
If we pass the same configuration to the `apply` command, kongctl will present you with the planned changes 
and prompt you for confirmation before executing them.

```bash
echo 'portals:
  - ref: getting-started-portal
    name: "My First Portal"
    display_name: "The Getting Started Portal"
    description: "My first declaratively managed portal"' | kongctl apply -f -
```

The confirmation and prompt will look like the following:

```bash
RESOURCE CHANGES
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Namespace: default (1 changes: 1 create)
  portal (1 resources):
    + getting-started-portal

SUMMARY
----------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total changes: 1
  Namespaces affected: 1
  Resources to create: 1

  Resource breakdown:
    portal: 1

CONFIRM?
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Do you want to continue? Type 'yes' to confirm:

> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```
{:.no-copy-code}
````

> If you type `yes` and Enter the resources will be created:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Type `yes` and press Enter to create the resources:
```

```bash
Executing changes:
[1/1] [namespace: default] Creating portal: getting-started-portal... ✓

Complete.
Executed 1 changes.

> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```
{:.no-copy-code}
````

## View applied changes

Now that you have a created a developer portal, running the `get` operations again should yield results:

```bash
kongctl get portals --output json
```

And your results should look similar to the following:

```json
[
  {
    "authentication_enabled": true,
    "auto_approve_applications": false,
    "auto_approve_developers": false,
    "canonical_domain": "d6a3e6b6bc64.us.kongportals.com",
    "created_at": "2026-02-06T18:06:12.924Z",
    "default_api_visibility": "private",
    "default_application_auth_strategy_id": null,
    "default_domain": "d6a3e6b6bc64.us.kongportals.com",
    "default_page_visibility": "private",
    "description": "My first declaratively managed portal",
    "display_name": "The Getting Started Portal",
    "id": "ca9e25a5-67ed-4b3e-b94a-3f8977557780",
    "labels": {
      "KONGCTL-namespace": "default"
    },
    "name": "My First Portal",
    "rbac_enabled": false,
    "updated_at": "2026-02-06T18:06:12.924Z"
  }
]

> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```
{:.no-copy-code}
````

Congratulations! You just went from zero to managing {{site.konnect_short_name}} resources with kongctl.

## Next steps

You've now learned the basics of kongctl! Here's what to explore next:

* [Learn kongctl authorization options](/kongctl/authentication/)
* [Guide for managing {{site.konnect_short_name}} resources declaratively](/kongctl/declarative/)
* [kongctl configuration reference guide](/kongctl/config/) 
* [kongctl troubleshooting guide](/kongctl/troubleshooting/)

> * [Using kongctl and deck for full API platform management](/kongctl/kongctl-and-deck/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
